We know that the top 10% of the
wealthiest 10% of households
control 88% of stock ownership in this
country.
>> Wow. Which is rather extraordinary. So,
that tells you where stock market and
real estate gains really go. Mhm.
>> So, there are other Americans that are
doing okay,
but they're not rolling in money like
the top one and top 10% are. So, really
I think it's a story of the top 10% and
everyone else.
>> [music]
>> Hi Miriam. Hi Tellus. So, today we've
got a really interesting conversation
coming up. It's framed around Well, that
classic thing, the two-speed, the
K-shape, the haves and the have-nots.
We've got on the one hand the CapEx
economy, companies spending gazillions
of dollars building out in preparation
for the AI revolution. And then on the
other hand we've got consumers who are
facing rising gas prices. And we've got
the companies that sell stuff to
consumers
struggling. So, it's CapEx versus
consumers. Banks versus boxes is another
way to look at it. We'll talk about that
more in a bit. But first, of course,
we've got Well, the the the locus of AI
reporting this upcoming week, Nvidia,
their earnings. Miriam, what are you
looking for? Well, I am looking at
purchase commitments, which is one thing
that our colleague Dan Gallagher
highlighted in a recent column. Always
going back to those Dan Gallagher
columns. That's not the usual number
people are looking at, right? That's
interesting.
>> No, but I think a big reason for it is
something we talked about on last week's
episode, which is these semiconductor
stocks are through the roof, and that is
a key input for a company like Nvidia.
Oh, that's interesting, cuz we talk
about Nvidia as a chip maker, right? But
actually other people actually help them
make chips. So, they've still got to buy
chips as well as sell them. You know,
obviously there's a shortage of this
stuff, the prices are going up, and the
price that Nvidia has to pay for this
stuff is going up. And on the one hand
you could say, "Oh, that is bullish
because Nvidia is such a big company.
It's the biggest player. It's doing so
well
um that it can afford to pay the highest
price and lots of competitors can't."
>> Yeah. Okay. But on the other hand, I
mean, this is a huge expense. So, I
don't think that it's
I personally don't think it's that
bullish. I think it's I think it's
something to watch. It's I think it's a
risk and it's one of a couple of risks
that I've noticed recently with Nvidia's
stock price being so high. Well, it's
really riding high off of I get I guess
this this trip to China where um
Nvidia's CEO um Jensen Huang joined
President Trump and a bunch of other
business leaders including Elon Musk.
And China, of course, is a huge
opportunity for Nvidia to sell more of
its products there. But, of course, you
know, there's major politics involved in
that. You know, does President Trump
want them to sell to China? Could that
be part of a deal? Et cetera. So,
I think the market will be looking for
any any insight they can glean on what
maybe, you know, Jensen got out of China
from his trip there. They'll be looking
for some commentary on the earnings call
as well. Definitely. And another key
risk that I've noticed uh recently is
the risk facing some of Nvidia's biggest
customers,
such as OpenAI. The Wall Street Journal
reported that OpenAI missed key revenue
and user targets as it's trying to
prepare for a possible IPO potentially
later this year.
And
that's a pretty bearish sign cuz I think
they're one of Nvidia's biggest
customers. So, the health of your
business is only as strong as the health
of your big customers. And I think that
if, you know, some of these signs that,
you know, things are starting to slow
down with, you know, key customers
>> When you got OpenAI in the middle of
this crazy trial, right? Where Elon Musk
is suing them saying that they
they essentially stole the company from
him. Originally, it was set out to be a
nonprofit, then they turned it into a
for-profit company. Elon's saying
they they shouldn't have done that. And
so that that's
Who knows how exactly that will resolve
what whether or not he'll even win the
case and even if he did. But right. And
so that that casts a cloud over someone
who's a critical customer for Nvidia.
>> Yeah. And you know, just when the Wall
Street Journal published that story,
stocks fell including Nvidia. Like
Nvidia was one of the companies whose
stock reacted to those Open AI numbers.
So I think that just shows you how
interconnected this AI economy is and
how even the strongest player, Nvidia,
is reliant on potentially some weaker
players that are out there and how you
know, what's popping it up could be at
risk.
>> Well, that's pretty interesting Miriam
and you're swimming against the tide on
this one with these bearish thoughts cuz
Nvidia recently hit another all-time
high. Its stock was up about 15% over
the course of 6 days. So
maybe it's maybe it's priced to
perfection and set up for a little a
little comeback. Possibly. It It's just
making me nervous at these levels. I
don't know. It's something to think
about. I think the risks are becoming
clearer
um at these prices.
Well, there's
no question about the risks to a bunch
of companies that are reporting this
upcoming week as well and that is
retailers like Target, Walmart. We've
got Home Depot, Lowe's in the housing
part of the economy.
The risk there is that prices are rising
and that's not just for the consumers
who are buying from them, but it's for
the the companies that make and sell as
well. You had two inflation readings
this past week. One was the CPI,
Consumer Price Index. The other was the
PPI, Producer Price Index. Both of them
were hotter than expected. And what's
interesting about the Producer Price
Index, which again is a measure of
wholesale prices. That is if you you buy
inputs to make something and then you
sell it. So you buy stuff at the PPI and
you sell stuff at the CPI. And the PPI
was rising a lot faster than the CPI in
the most recent reading. By By my tally,
by the sort of biggest gap in in a few
years. And what that tells you is that
producers are paying a lot more to make
stuff, but struggling to pass that along
to consumers in the form of higher kind
of sticker prices when you go to the
store. And that may be because consumers
literally cannot buy the stuff. I mean,
the CEO of Kraft Heinz said consumers
are literally running out of money by
the end of the month. And that's because
wages really have not kept pace with
inflation.
>> Yeah, for the first time in 3 years, the
consumer prices were actually rising
faster than wages. So, in that sense,
you know, I know maybe it sounds like
hyperbole people are literally running
out of money. But at this point, you
know, just to just to buy what you did
yesterday,
you're you're kind of losing money. You
you've got to cut back at some point in
order to to stay afloat or eat into your
savings. And of course, a lot of this is
being driven by what's happening in with
gas prices and oil prices. Um, you know,
a direct result of the war in Iran and
the closure of the Strait of Hormuz,
which we've talked about a lot on this
show. Well, and that has after effects,
too. And that's why I want to I want to
focus in on on Home Depot and Lowe's in
particular, which is that
higher inflation readings and and
expectations the Fed is not going to be
cutting anytime soon. Um, by the way,
welcome Kevin Warsh. Uh, he's he's he's
as of this this coming week, he will
officially be the chairman of the
Federal Reserve. So, uh, this is all now
his problem. Those expectations of
higher rates drive up Treasury yields,
which in turn drive up mortgage rates.
Mortgage rates have been hitting, you
know, some of their highest levels in a
little while recently. And that means
that it's even more expensive for people
to move. Which means bad things for Home
Depot and Lowe's because they rely on
people moving to go to the hardware
store, buy stuff to fix up their houses,
um, you know, do renovations, do things
to fix up their houses to sell them. And
right now that activity is really really
muted. We've also had discussed that on
this show. I mean, people are just not
moving. They're locked into their low
rates from a long time ago. They're not
They're not budging. Nobody wants to buy
houses at at these rates, and
>> season's been a bust. Uh the journal was
writing recently, so
>> So, that's pretty bearish for those
companies. I mean, on the one hand, you
could say maybe now when everyone's
fearful about these, you know,
housing-related stocks, now's the time
to jump in.
But, for me, I think I would want to see
one additional sign that something is
going to change related to interest
rates um and mortgage rates. Well, and
that probably comes back to something
like, you know, do you think the
straight-up home moves will be open or
closed come June? But, here's the here's
the way maybe investors want to think
about it, which is a little bit
different from just like is the consumer
doing well or not, which is
does this benefit some retailers and not
others, right? So,
you have discounters, maybe they win
because people are trading down from,
you know, they're not shopping at, you
know, kind of a fancy brand-name store
anymore. They're buying more of that
same type of stuff at a Walmart or
something. Uh of course, at the other
end of the spectrum, you have, you know,
people who are buying, you know, trips
and kind of luxury goods and things like
that. Maybe they can still continue to
afford things because the stock market
is still at a high. So, I think
investors will want to kind of
differentiate between not just, okay,
everybody's facing rising prices, but
who who who benefits from that?
>> I think that's right. And, you know,
people who own stocks are looking at
their portfolios and are feeling very
flush right now. Markets are near
all-time highs, and uh you know, that
translates into the higher-end consumer
being more willing to spend sometimes.
All right. Well, as is uh as is our
habit on this show here, Miriam and I,
having all these questions and being
confused about this, we decided to phone
phone an expert.
>> [laughter]
>> Phone a friend.
>> Phone a friend. Um so, we called Adam
Josephson. He's the founder of
Sacconaghi Research, and Adam is a
long-time analyst of consumer packaged
goods companies, which means that he
looks not just at like the companies
that sell you, you know, the the the
basic stuff that you buy. He also looks
at retailers and he also looks at
boxes, like suppliers.
>> packaging.
>> The literal packaging for those things.
And so he's got a lot of interesting
thoughts about that and and lately he
has been pairing that analysis with
what he thinks is interesting about
what's going on in the financial side of
the economy. And is there an imbalance
between, you know, how much money is
washing around and that's been good for
banks. That's been good for all of these
kind of private asset managers we've
been talking about, but not so good for
consumers. So Adam helps kind of
explain sort of why some things are
doing so well and some things are not.
And it's a really interesting
conversation that we're going to have
after the break. Oh, but wait, wait,
wait. One thing I wanted to note. We're
taking a break next week for the
Memorial Day holiday, so there will be
no episode of Take on the Week. We will
be back after that. All right, good good
good housekeeping reminder there,
Miriam. Thanks so much. All right, now
for real, we're taking our break. We're
going to have our conversation with Adam
Josephson of Saconna Research.
Adam, welcome to the show. Thank you for
having me, Dallas. So we feel like you
are unique in that you look at both the
financial part of the economy, you look
at banks, what's going on with the the
treasuries market, but you also look
really closely at consumer companies,
consumer packaged goods companies, but
also, you know, shipping companies and
things like that. So so you really
>> packaging companies, too. Yeah. Literal
boxes and banks. Boxes and banks. That's
how
>> [laughter]
>> That's how we were pitching this
episode. Boxes and banks. Um
so I feel like you're in a unique
position to answer this question of why
we're getting these kind of competing
views of the economy. You know, you hear
from banks, things are great, our
consumers are great, business is looking
good, the economy's doing well. And then
you hear from a lot of consumer
companies, oh, our
our customers are struggling, we're
trying to figure things out. Seen some
big negative stock reactions companies
lately, Shake Shack for example, how do
you square these narratives? So I'll
start with what the bank CEOs said. They
usually kick off earnings but banks
always kick off earning season and they
typically say consumer spending is solid
or strong or whatever adjective they
they choose to use.
But they're typically referring to
nominal spending, not inflation adjusted
spending.
So they look at their credit card and
debit card data and say well, spending
is up 4% 4.5%
life could be a lot worse but inflation
adjusted you may be talking half a point
of unit volume growth
a point maybe
which is not great. It's not terrible
but it's certainly not great.
>> [snorts]
>> In terms of
broader economic activity
you've got all the data center spending,
you've got aerospace and defense
spending, you've got automation
spending. There was a company Rockwell
Automation that experienced strength in
all those areas to use them as an as an
example. So the industrial economy is
doing far better than the consumer
economy. So why don't those things
connect though? If the if the industrial
economy is doing well, if if the
companies like Rockwell Automation are,
you know, seeing improving kind of
projects that they're working on.
You have all this AI capex spending. Why
isn't that spilling over to to to
people? So data center spending is far
removed from consumer activity.
Aerospace and defense spending far
Automation spending far removed from
consumer activity. Automation spending
helps businesses become more efficient
and it actually helps them reduce labor.
Data center spending arguably helps
companies reduce labor.
Aerospace [snorts] and defense is a
whole 'nother animal. But none of those
areas is directly tied to consumer
spending.
So you could have
large parts of the industrial economy
that are flourishing but you could have
consumer spending that's actually quite
weak. And I guess those parts have
always been not very tied to consumer
spending, but they just happen to be the
very strongest parts of our economy
right now. Right. And as one of your
colleagues pointed out in his recent
column,
data center spending and AI spending
broadly is accounting for a
disproportionate share of GDP growth.
Mhm.
Consumer spending, by contrast, is
growing at an increasingly slowing rate.
Over the past three quarters it's gone
from growing at 3 and 1/2% to most
recently just 1.6%. So, you can see it
in the GDP data. You can see it in what
all the retailers, consumer staples
companies, restaurant chains, hotel
chains, apartment rates, you can see it
what all of them are reporting and what
the CEOs of these companies are saying,
whether it's McDonald's, Kraft Heinz,
Shake Shack,
it just
up and down the list, CEOs of consumer
companies saying, "Yeah, the the bottom
90% has a problem." And what is wrong
with the consumer? Is it that wages have
just not kept up with inflation? Is that
clear and simple the the problem? Yeah.
So, if you look at the BLS's real
average weekly earnings data that comes
out every month, you'd see that there
has been basically no growth
in real average weekly earnings from
February 2020 to now. In 6 years,
there's been no growth in
inflation-adjusted incomes.
Zero.
So,
and over the past 10 years it's the
growth has been roughly 5% over a
decade. That's not much. No wonder
companies are so profitable.
They're not paying their workers much
more. Right, exactly. They're becoming
ever more efficient and corporate profit
margins are at all-time highs, but many
consumers are really weak. When you look
at it from a labor market point of view
though,
we just had a pretty strong report
recently. Job growth was was the number
of jobs was strong. And also, the
unemployment rate has has stayed, you
know, it's drifted up a little bit, but
it's still stayed in the historically
low range. And I'm used to hearing,
especially banks, talk about consumers.
As long as people are working, they're
going to do okay. But is is are we not
getting the real picture the of of the
consumer through the labor market?
You have kind of a a no hire, no fire
situation right now.
And then, when you examine the
composition of the jobs growth, you can
see that a disproportionate amount of it
is coming from healthcare and social
assistance,
which is not
typically a sign of a robust economy. In
fact, it's just the opposite. But why
not? What's so bad about like more
people working in the healthcare part of
the economy? It's it's not bad per se.
That's not a sign that the cyclical
economy is picking up.
In fact, just the opposite.
So, I'm not suggesting that the jobs
data is bad, but nor is it particularly
good. And as you know, the revisions
over the past couple of years have been
sharply downward.
And [snorts] and again, you have to look
at the average wages. What's happening
to wages? And I just mentioned that
real average weekly incomes have not
grown in 6 years. So, that tells you
everything you need to know about the
state of the labor market. If the labor
market were strong, people's nominal
wages would be outpacing inflation, but
that's not what's happening.
I want to ask about packaging because I
know that that's like your original
love, right? You covered packaging.
>> Original and still love.
>> [laughter]
>> So, what does packaging tell us about
the health of the consumer in the
broader economy? Cuz you would think
that it could also, in some ways, be
tied to this industrial economy, too.
Like, is it both?
>> You would think. So, goods are about 20
to 25% of GDP.
Uh [snorts] services are a much bigger
chunk of consumer spending than are
goods, but goods are a big part of the
economy as well.
And boxes and packaging more broadly are
a reflection of goods demand.
And as you know, at the height of the
pandemic, goods demand exploded. People
were getting checks, they were stuck at
home, they were buying anything and
everything.
And there was this enormous bubble in
goods consumption, and that bubble has
since popped. So, you see that very much
reflected in box shipments. They've
declined in three of the past four
years,
and they're declining again this year.
So, this upcoming week Walmart is
reporting its earnings. And
Walmart has been doing great. They've
had great quarters recently. Their stock
has been doing really well.
And that makes me wonder if
when a company talks about when a
retailer talks about, "Oh, the economy's
really tough, and our customers are
really tough." Is that a little bit of
an excuse for just like, "We're kind of
losing, and maybe Walmart's winning."
Right? People don't want to shop with us
because they get the same thing for
better
Walmart, it's more convenient. What do
you think Walmart's earnings will tell
us about what's going on in the consumer
sector?
>> Right. Right. So, what you've seen for
the past two-ish years in the retail
sector is the discount retailers have
been gaining at the expense of everyone
else. I'm referring to Walmart, Costco,
TJX, Ross Stores has had fluctuations in
its comp sales growth, but those have
been the retailers that have done
particularly well over the past 2 years.
And what do they have in common?
Discount retailers. They're able to
offer consumers a really good deal
given their scale advantages. And many
other retailers that are not discount
retailers have really struggled. It's
that simple.
And there's more to it than just
discount versus non-discount, and we can
talk about the the drug  you
know, pharmacy sales issue later, but
that is really the dividing line is are
you a big discount retailer or are you
not? And Walmart must certainly is, and
its comp US comp growth has been 4 to 5%
over the past 2 and 1/2 years,
consistently four to five, which has
been better than most of its peers, and
and that's largely why its stock has
done so well, and it's
>> that just because consumers have to shop
somewhere?
Well, for sure. And as Walmart itself
has said on many occasions, they've been
benefiting from higher-income households
trading down to Walmart.
>> Mhm. Either out of, you know, by choice
or out of necessity. So, that's
partly why Walmart has done so well. Is
trade The Walmart used to be a barometer
of
spending activity.
And it still is to some extent, but
lately it's more of a a barometer on
people trading down to save money. So,
it's its its success is not indicative
of Oh, actually, the consumer's doing
okay. I don't think that's what Walmart
is saying. And in fact, on that their
last call, they said households that
make 50,000 or less are really
struggling. Mhm. And they acknowledge
that most of their sales growth is
coming from higher-income households.
Mhm. That's not a sign of a healthy
consumer. It's good for Walmart, but it
doesn't mean the consumer economy is
doing well. But those higher-income
consumers, they own assets, right? So,
they should be doing well right now. The
stock market's at record highs. Aren't
those people doing well? Why do they
have to trade down?
What does Walmart mean by higher-income
households? So, the the disproportionate
share of assets in this country is held
by the top 1%. So, when Walmart's
referring to higher-income households,
they're not necessarily referring to the
top 1% or the top 5%. They may be
referring to the top
10 or 20.
>> Mhm. So, they're not overly specific in
terms of their definition of higher
income. Your point is a valid one,
but there are luxury goods companies
such such as LVMH that have been
struggling much more than normal. Mhm.
So, it's not just that everyone who's at
at high end of the income spectrum is
spending. It's not that simple. Yeah, I
want to ask a little bit more about, you
know, the people at the top of this
K-shaped economy.
What's What's going on with them? I
mean, as I said, the stock market's at
record highs. How much of the economy
are they accounting for?
>> So, based on quarterly data from the
Fed, we know that the top 10% of how the
wealthiest 10% of households
control 88% of stock ownership in this
country. Wow. Which is rather
extraordinary. So, that tells you where
stock market and real estate gains
really go.
So, there are other Americans that are
doing okay,
but they're not rolling in money like
the top one and top 10% are. So, really,
I think it's a story of the top 10% and
everyone else. So, with Walmart, you
mentioned that drugs and drug sales
might be a big part of the story. Can
you get into that a little bit more?
>> Sure. Well, if you look at the broad
economic data, you can see that health
care spending as a share of total
spending has been up into the right over
the past 2 years. So, that is a broad
trend.
And then And that that is corroborated
by what you see from the large retailers
and supermarket chains, including
Walmart, Kroger, and Albertsons. So, in
Walmart's case, their they their
merchandise sales are in reported three
categories: general merchandise,
grocery, and health and wellness. Health
and wellness is pharmacies
pharmacy/drugs.
And over the past 2 to 3 years,
pharmacy/drugs has been by far the
fastest-growing merchandise category
that Walmart has. So, you can just see
it right there.
>> It's right there. You look at Albertsons
um
comp sales growth. All of it has been
coming from pharmacy. Literally all of
it. Kroger doesn't report its
merchandise categories in its filings,
but the company has said in its earnings
releases and on its calls that the
particular strength in sales growth came
from pharmacy. And is that just because
drugs are more expensive or
>> that's a large reason for it along with
the growing adoption of GLP-1 drugs. Oh,
interesting. And those are quite
expensive.
>> Yep. But the bottom line is that that
health care spending is largely if not
entirely non-discretionary.
And when you look at the composition of
consumer spending in recent years, the a
disproportionate
amount of the growth has come from
non-discretionary categories.
Health care,
rent,
tuition, insurance, financial services.
That that you see it in the monthly
consumer spending data. And so what you
see from the retailers is just it it's
corroborating what you see in the
government data is the retailers that
either are discount retailers or sell a
mandatory good are the ones doing the
best. Well, we're going to take a quick
break. When we come back, more with Adam
Josephson of Sacaton Research.
All right, welcome back. So Adam,
focusing on the Wall Street side of
things.
Uh you focus a lot about the growth of
lending to hedge funds, to private
credit funds. Basically, banks are doing
a really well
lending to other lenders in the
financial part of the economy.
Why do you think that's relevant to what
you're talking about with consumers?
Well, when you look at
what banks are doing with respect to
growing their balance sheets, you can
see where all the growth is. I just
wrote about this in recent days that if
you look at JP Morgan's first quarter
data, virtually all of its asset growth
sequentially came from trading assets
and uh loans for purchasing or carrying
securities, which includes margin
lending.
That is where
almost the entirety of their asset
growth came from. Not lending to
households and businesses, it's lending
to, in large measure, the financial
economy.
And I mentioned JP Morgan, but that's
but that comment applies to
many of the large banks. And you can see
it in the weekly Fed data that in the
the H.8 release,
you see it everywhere. That that's where
And when banks reported their first
quarter results, what was the standout?
Wall Street businesses. Trading, wealth
management, you name it. Not lending to
Main Street. That's not where their NIA
growth came from.
So, the banks that that have large
trading businesses and wealth management
businesses did really well. Those that
do not did not. Simple as that. And so,
it's a chicken or the egg. Is Is it that
the consumers are reluctant to borrow or
it's too expensive for them to borrow or
is it the or is it the banks are
reluctant to lend to them?
We'll never know.
What we can observe is that
that a disproportionate amount amount of
banks' asset growth is going to Wall
Street, not Main Street. It's clear as
day. And you're saying that's sending a
kind of false positive signal about the
economy. That things can look okay and
growing and oh, we've got all this capex
and corporate earnings are doing well.
And you're saying
the banks are lending into that and
doing well doing that, but that
underneath that is like a kind of
weakness in the consumer that you're
just not seeing there? It's no
coincidence that banks are shoveling
ever more money into NDFI lending and
repo lending.
And people wonder why, you know, the
stock market has held up so
extraordinarily well
even though the average consumer is
clearly worse off since the Iran Iran
war began. And yeah, you can talk about
the chip companies and how earnings
estimates for the chip companies have
gone skyward, and that is absolutely
true.
But,
there there seems to be a disconnect
between asset prices and what's
happening in the economy.
And I think that is entirely down to
an ex- the extraordinary amount of
financial leverage that broker-dealers
and hedge funds are using.
All right, so let's talk about this
from, you know, I'm an investor sitting
here today.
What do you think people should be
doing, or
what's your expectation for how this
tension between the consumer economy and
the financial economy
How does that resolve? What should
people be doing about this?
Well, so if if I'm right that asset
prices are as elevated as they are
because of the extraordinary amount of
financial leverage
that's in the system,
one ought to be really careful about
owning many financial assets right now.
>> Mhm. You're saying now's the time to
think defensively.
I would I would think so. I mean,
periods of excessive financial leverage
tend not to end well.
We we've seen this movie before.
We saw it in '07-'08. We saw it in
'99-2000. We've seen it before. We've
seen how it ended. Now, it could go on
for another year or two. I have no idea.
But, given the amount of financial
leverage and the warnings that we're
reading from regulators around the world
about this high financial leverage,
one may want to consider proceeding
cautiously. Will there be a recession if
over here we have these, you know,
financial assets continuing to boom, and
consumers like literally not being able
to afford to put food on their table?
I don't It's impossible to call the
timing of any recession.
>> Mhm.
Uh
I don't see how the the income outlook
for the average American is going to
improve anytime soon. I've just I I find
it hard to imagine how that would happen
because the full effects of the Iran war
have yet to be felt.
>> Mhm. And there's already been pressure
on inflation-adjusted income. We saw
that in March. We've seen it for years.
So, this is not a new story. It's just
been become more pronounced since the
war began.
My
my concern is more about what could
happen to financial assets and the the
effect that that could have on the real
economy.
>> Mhm.
Because as an example
where where is all the money for the
data center spending coming from? Now,
some of it's coming from the
hyperscalers cash flow. Some of it's
coming from borrowing.
And where from whom are the hyperscalers
borrowing?
Private credit and banks.
We know that some banks are trying to
reduce their exposure to this data
center debt. We know that many private
credit funds are experiencing
elevated redemptions. Mhm. So, how
sustainable is the funding for all this
data center investment? That's just one
of many examples. And I recently wrote
about the fact that we are living in a
hyper-financialized
economy.
And even the the New York Fed in its
Liberty Liberty Street Economics blog
referenced this. They they expressed the
concern that if anything were to happen
to the price of financial assets,
consumer spending could take a hit.
So, I think that is one of the real
underappreciated risks is how
hyper-financialized
this economy is and the implications
of
an asset bubble or or an asset price
problem.
All right, so we're talking about risks
to consumers, risks to the financial
economy.
Are there defensive plays? How do
investors think defensively in a market
like this?
Historically in recessionary periods,
defensive sectors perform quite well.
Whether it's health care, consumer
staples,
but the relationship between defensive
sectors and the state of the economy has
broken down.
>> Yeah. And in fact, consumer staple
stocks have been among the worst
performers this year, even though we are
arguably in a stagflationary
environment.
But the the staples companies are not
benefiting from anything that's
happening. The standard investing
playbooks in terms of which sectors to
own in a shaky economy are out the
window. All right, well, Adam, this has
been really interesting and
illuminating. Thanks so much for joining
us. Thank you, Talos. Thank you, Maryam.
>> [music]
[music]
>> I just wanted to give some sense of the
scale. Like, 15% over 6 days. Yeah.
That's pretty good.
>> Pretty good for a big
company.
Yes, for a banana ready. For a banana
ready master. That's like a trillion
dollars.
>> Yeah.
>> [music]